
Preface to the first edition
C is a general-purpose programming language with features economy of expression, modern flow control and data structures, and a rich set of operators. C is not a ``very high level'' language, nor a ``big'' one, and is not specialized to any particular area of application. But its absence of restrictions and its generality make it more convenient and effective for many tasks than supposedly more powerful languages. 
第一版序言：
C语言是一个通用编程语言，拥有很多有点，如表达经济、现代流控制、数据结构和丰富的操作器。C不是一个“非常高级”的语言，也不是大型语言，它不仅限于某种特定的应用中。但是由于无限制以及它的通用性，使得它比一些强大语言更方便更有效。
C was originally designed for and implemented on the UNIX operating system on the DEC PDP-11, by Dennis Ritchie. The operating system, the C compiler, and essentially all UNIX applications programs (including all of the software used to prepare this book) are written in C. Production compilers also exist for several other machines, including the IBM System/370, the Honeywell 6000, and the Interdata 8/32. C is not tied to any particular hardware or system, however, and it is easy to write programs that will run without change on any machine that supports C. 
C语言最初是为DEC PDP-11的UNIX操作系统设计的，由Dennis Ritchie完成。这个操作系统和它的编译器以及所有的UNIX应用程序（包括本书使用的软件）都是用C语言写的。其它机器也有产品级的编译器,包括：IBM System/370, Honeywell 6000,Interdata 8/32. C语言不局限于特定硬件或系统，而且，使用C语言写的程序，可以不经修改地运行在任何支持C语言的机器上。

This book is meant to help the reader learn how to program in C. It contains a tutorial introduction to get new users started as soon as possible, separate chapters on each major feature, and a reference manual. Most of the treatment is based on reading, writing and revising examples, rather than on mere statements of rules. For the most part, the examples are complete, real programs rather than isolated fragments. All examples have been tested directly from the text, which is in machine-readable form. Besides showing how to make effective use of the language, we have also tried where possible to illustrate useful algorithms and principles of good style and sound design. 
本书旨在帮助读者学习如何用C语言编程。其中包括一个简单介绍，可以让新手尽快上手，每一个重大特征都由独立章节讲解，还有一个参考手册。大部分的内容都基于可阅读、可书写和修改的例子，而不是只有规则的阐述。大部分的例子都是完整真是的程序，而不是孤立的片段。所有的例子都从文本直接测试过，也就是说它们都是机器可阅读的形式。除了展示如何有效地使用该语言，我们也试着尽可能地阐述有用的算法和好的设计原则。

The book is not an introductory programming manual; it assumes some familiarity with basic programming concepts like variables, assignment statements, loops, and functions. Nonetheless, a novice programmer should be able to read along and pick up the language, although access to more knowledgeable colleague will help. 
这本书不是变成入门手册，它假定读者对基本的变成概念有所了解，如变量，赋值声明，循环，函数等。不过，一个编程新手应该可以阅读并掌握这门语言，当然，掌握更多的知识可以对此有更多帮助。

In our experience, C has proven to be a pleasant, expressive and versatile language for a wide variety of programs. It is easy to learn, and it wears well as on's experience with it grows. We hope that this book will help you to use it well. 
从我们的经验来看，C语言被证明是一种可用于多种程序的令人愉悦、表达力强、用途广泛的语言。它容易学习，当你的经验增长后，它能更好的利用它。我们希望本书可以帮你更好的利用它。


The thoughtful criticisms and suggestions of many friends and colleagues have added greatly to this book and to our pleasure in writing it. In particular, Mike Bianchi, Jim Blue, Stu Feldman, Doug McIlroy Bill Roome, Bob Rosin and Larry Rosler all read multiple volumes with care. We are also indebted to Al Aho, Steve Bourne, Dan Dvorak, Chuck Haley, Debbie Haley, Marion Harris, Rick Holt, Steve Johnson, John Mashey, Bob Mitze, Ralph Muha, Peter Nelson, Elliot Pinson, Bill Plauger, Jerry Spivack, Ken Thompson, and Peter Weinberger for helpful comments at various stages, and to Mile Lesk and Joe Ossanna for invaluable assistance with typesetting. 
感谢所有提供帮助的人！
Brian W. Kernighan
Dennis M. Ritchie 

